{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf610
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 ##How many different products are in each order? Which order has the most number of unique products?
\b0 \
\
SELECT orderID, COUNT(DISTINCT(productID))\
FROM orderdetails\
GROUP BY orderID\
ORDER BY COUNT(DISTINCT(productID)) DESC;\
\

\b ##Which products are sold in jars? What is the most expensive product that\'92s sold in jars?
\b0 \
\
SELECT productname,unit,price\
FROM products\
WHERE unit LIKE '%jars'\
ORDER BY price DESC;\
\

\b ##What are the product names are included in order ID 10250?
\b0 \
\
SELECT orderdetails.orderid,products.productname \
FROM orderdetails\
INNER JOIN products\
ON orderdetails.productid = products.productid\
WHERE orderid = 10250;\
\

\b ##What products are contained in category \'91Dairy Products\'92?
\b0 \
\
Select categories.categoryname,products.productname\
FROM categories\
INNER JOIN products\
ON categories.categoryid = products.categoryid\
WHERE categories.categoryname = 'Dairy Products';\
\

\b ##Return the top 5 countries which have the most customers? 
\b0 \
\
Select COUNTRY as 'Top 5 countryies having the most customers',COUNT(DISTINCT(customername)) AS 'Number of distinct customers'\
FROM customers\
GROUP BY COUNTRY\
ORDER BY COUNT(DISTINCT(customername)) DESC\
LIMIT 5;\
\

\b ##Which employees studied English in their education background?
\b0 \
\
SELECT *\
FROM employees\
WHERE notes LIKE '%english%';\
\
##Which employees are born after 1960?\
\
SELECT *\
FROM employees\
WHERE birthdate >= '1960-01-01';\
\

\b ##Return the top 10 products have been sold the most
\b0 \
\
SELECT products.productid, products.productname,COUNT(quantity) AS 'Quantity sold'\
FROM orderdetails\
INNER JOIN products\
ON orderdetails.productid = products.productid\
GROUP BY products.productname\
ORDER BY COUNT(quantity) DESC\
LIMIT 12;\
\

\b ##What are the average prices for \'91bottles\'92 and \'91jars\'92 products?
\b0  \
\
SELECT AVG(price)\
FROM products\
WHERE unit LIKE '%jars' or unit LIKE '%bottles';\
\
}