{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf610
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 ##Which actors have the first name \'91Scarlett\'92?\

\b0 \
SELECT * FROM actor\
WHERE first_name = 'Scarlett';\
\

\b \
##Which actors have the last name \'91Johansson\'92?
\b0 \
\
SELECT * FROM actor\
WHERE last_name = 'Johansson';\
\

\b \
##How many distinct actors last names are there?
\b0 \
\
SELECT COUNT(distinct(last_name)) \
FROM actor;\

\b \
##Which last names appear more than once?
\b0 \
\
SELECT last_name, COUNT(last_name)\
FROM actor\
GROUP BY last_name\
HAVING COUNT(last_name) >1\
ORDER BY COUNT(last_name) DESC;\

\b \
##How many total rentals occurred in May?
\b0 \
\
SELECT COUNT(distinct(rental_id))\
FROM rental\
WHERE rental_date LIKE '2005-05-%' ;\
\

\b \
##How many staff processed rentals in May?\
##How many staffs processed rentals in May?
\b0 \
\
SELECT count(distinct(staff_id))\
FROM rental\
WHERE rental_date LIKE '2005-05-%';\
\

\b \
##Which staff processed the most rentals in May?
\b0 \
\
SELECT rental.staff_id, staff.last_name, staff.first_name, COUNT(distinct(rental_id))\
FROM rental\
INNER JOIN staff\
ON rental.staff_id = staff.staff_id\
GROUP BY rental.staff_id\
ORDER BY COUNT(rental_id) DESC\
LIMIT 1;\
\

\b \
##Which customer paid the most rental in August?
\b0 \
\
SELECT payment.customer_id, customer.last_name, customer.first_name, COUNT(payment.payment_id) AS 'Total number of rental',SUM(payment.amount) AS 'Total rental payment'\
FROM payment\
INNER JOIN customer\
ON payment.customer_id = customer.customer_id\
WHERE payment.payment_date LIKE '2005-08-%'\
GROUP BY payment.customer_id\
ORDER BY SUM(payment.amount) DESC\
Limit 1;\
\

\b \
##A summary of rental total amount by month.
\b0 \
\
SELECT MONTH(payment_date), YEAR(payment_date), SUM(amount) \
FROM PAYMENT\
GROUP BY MONTH(payment_date), YEAR(payment_date);\
\

\b \
## Which actor has appeared in the most films? use SET keywords
\b0 \
\
SELECT film_actor.actor_id, actor.first_name, actor.last_name, COUNT(distinct(film_id)) AS '# of films' from film_actor\
LEFT JOIN actor\
ON film_actor.actor_id = actor.actor_id\
GROUP BY film_actor.actor_id\
ORDER BY count(distinct(film_id)) DESC\
LIMIT 1;\
\

\b \
## Use JOIN to display the first and last names, as well as the address, of each staff member. Use the tables staff and address.
\b0 \
\
SELECT staff.first_name, staff.last_name, address.address\
FROM staff\
LEFT JOIN address\
ON staff.address_id = address.address_id; \
\

\b \
## List each film and the number of actors who are listed for that film. Use tables film_actor and film. Use inner join.
\b0 \
\
SELECT title, COUNT(actor_id) AS 'The # of actors'\
FROM film\
INNER JOIN film_actor\
ON film.film_id = film_actor.film_id\
GROUP BY title\
ORDER BY 2 DESC;\

\b \
## How many copies of the film Hunchback Impossible exist in the inventory system?
\b0 \
\
SELECT film.title, film.film_id, COUNT(inventory_id) AS 'Copies of the film'\
FROM inventory\
JOIN film\
ON inventory.film_id = film.film_id\
Where film.title = 'hunchback impossible'\
GROUP BY film.film_id;\
\

\b ## Using the tables payment and customer and the JOIN command, list the total paid by each customer. List the customers alphabetically by last name:
\b0 \
\
SELECT last_name, first_name, customer.customer_id, sum(amount) AS 'Total amount paid'\
FROM customer\
JOIN payment \
ON customer.customer_id = payment.customer_id\
GROUP BY 3\
ORDER BY last_name;}